---
layout: default
title: Bradis
layout: post
published: false
---

A few years ago, I needed a project. I had become consumed by a desire to use
[Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/), and I was trying to learn how to do complex
things with it. Small projects and challenges were getting old and I felt like
I was spinning my wheels. I needed something I was uncomfortable with.

After some failed attempts at contributing to the language or projects around
it, I had an idea. I was talking with a friend about [Redis](https://redis.io),
which also consumes a lot of my brain cycles, and I thought "What if I write a
Rust Redis?".

Yes. I know. There is already a Redis. It works much better than the one I
could write. It's more stable and has more support. So this won't be something
to *use* per se, but rather a tool to focus my efforts. That's ok!

So my Redis probably wouldn't be good or complete, but I was determined to make
a serious attempt at it. I wanted to write something with production in mind,
even if it never lives in production.

Anyways. I started to write Redis with Rust, and several years later I have
something that is decidedly not a Redis. It's a small piece of a Redis, which
is not particularly valuable given the existence of a full,
free<sup>[*](#free-ish)</sup> Redis.

*However!*

It also happens to contain all the things I've learned in the meantime. It
contains my reintroduction to the stack and the heap after many years of
dynamic languages. It represents my struggles with the borrow checker and my
best attempts at writing <code>unsafe</code> code. It's everything I know about
async Rust. It's an outline of how Redis works. It's an illustration of how to
do zero-copy networking. It's my conception of atomic operations and
concurrency. More importanly, it's all the fun I had putting it together!

And that's pretty valuable - at least to me. And maybe someone else.

I've gone a long way on my own but I think I want more now. I'd like to share
it with someone. Get some feedback. Ask for help. Compare it to other people's
understanding. Multiply the fun. Divide the despair.

I'll be writing down all the things I've learned here. If you like them, or you
don't like them, or they're wrong, or you have questions, <a
href="https://hachyderm.io/@braddunbar" target="_blank">let me know</a>!

I've been calling it Bradis, because it sounds like Redis. And I like the way
it declares my existence. Brad is. (I am.)

### What is it then?

Ok. If it's not an entire Redis, what is it? Here are some things:

* A server that listens on a port and accepts connections over TCP.
* 126 Redis commands (at the time of writing). Most of them are in pretty good
  shape!
* Pubsub. You can sub and you can pub.
* An [implementation](http://github.com/braddunbar/respite) of the RESP protocol.

<hr>

<a id="free-ish">*</a> [License changes][license] notwithstanding.

[license]: https://redis.io/blog/redis-adopts-dual-source-available-licensing/
